Improving contributing guide (#194)
eth-cscs/cscs-docs: docs/contributing/index.md

# create a branch for your changes (here we are fixing the ssh docs)
git switch -c 'fix/ssh-alias'
# ... make your edits ...
```

> Review your edits checking the [Guidelines](#guidelines) section below.

Reviewer: Maybe this can be

```suggestion
Review your edits checking the [Guidelines][ref-contributing-guidelines] section below.
```
with an anchor added to the heading.

!!! note
    Note that a simple editor markdown preview may not render all the features of the documentation.

To properly review the docs locally, the `serve` script in the root path of the repository can be used as shown below:
```bash
./serve
...
INFO    -  [08:33:34] Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8000/
```

!!! note
    To run the serve script, you need to first install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/).

You can now open your browser at the address shown above (`http://127.0.0.1:8000/`). The documentation will be automatically rebuilt and the webpage reloaded on each file change you save.

> Alternatively, you can build the docs in a `site` sub-directory and open `site/index.html` with your browser too.

Reviewer: I would possibly leave this out? Things like search don't work at all when the html is opened just like that without serving it with a webserver.

```bash
./serve build
```

After your first review, commit and push your changes
```bash
git add <files>
git commit -m 'update the ssh docs with aliases for all user lab vclusters'
git push origin 'fix/ssh-alias'
```

Then navigate to GitHub, and create a pull request.

!!! tip
    If you've already created a fork repository, make sure to [keep it synced](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork) to the main CSCS repository before making further change.

## Review process

Documentation is maintained by everybody - so don't be afraid to jump in and make changes or fixes where you see the need or the potential.

> If you plan to make significantly large changes, please discuss them with an [issue](https://github.com/eth-cscs/cscs-docs/issues) beforehand, to ensure the changes will fit into the larger documentation structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you plan to make significant changes, please discuss them with an [issue](https://github.com/eth-cscs/cscs-docs/issues) beforehand, to ensure the changes will fit into the larger documentation structure.
```
"significantly large" is a bit of a word salad.

### Images

> A picture is worth a thousand words

We encourage the usage of images to improve clarity and understanding. You can use **screenshots** or **diagrams**.

Images are stored in the `docs/images` directory.

* create a new sub-directory for your images if appropriate
* choose a path and file name that hint what the image is about - neither `screenshot.png` nor `PX-202502025-imgx.png` are great names.

!!! warning
    Keep the size of your images to a minimum because we want to keep an overall lightweight repository.

> #### Screenshots

Reviewer: I think `screenshot` could be added to `.github/actions/spelling/allow.txt`. Wikipedia seems to use "screenshot" as well (not "screen shot"), so the spell checker is wrong here.

Author: adding `codeowners` and `screenshots`. I wonder which tool/config are you using to keep the alphabetical order? my sort yields something different so I just placed them manually

Reviewer: Ah, fair question. Emacs' `sort-lines` :upside_down_face: I suppose mine sorts caps before lower case, whereas yours maybe mixes them?

#### Diagrams

Diagrams can help readers understand more abstract concepts like processes or architectures. We suggest you use [mermaid](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/creating-diagrams#creating-mermaid-diagrams). Such format makes diagrams easy to maintain and removes the need to commit image files in the repository.

??? "Example"

    === "Source"

        ````text
        ```mermaid
        graph TD;
            Image(Will image add value?);
            Image--NO-->T(keep text only);
            Image--YES-->SD(What image is needed?)
            SD--Screenshot-->S(keep it lean)
            SD--Diagram-->D(keep it maintainable)
            D--Default-->M(Mermaid)
            D--Custom-->DR(Draw.io)
        ```
        ````

    === "Rendered"

        ```mermaid
        graph TD;
            Image(Will image add value?);
            Image--NO-->T(keep text only);
            Image--YES-->SD(What image is needed?)
            SD--Screenshot-->S(keep it lean)
            SD--Diagram-->D(keep it maintainable)
            D--Default-->M(Mermaid)
            D--Custom-->DR(Draw.io)

>         ```

Reviewer: Nice.
